
Adjustable-rate (ARM)

An adjustable-rate mortgage or ARM has an interest rate that can change. Your monthly payments can go up or down with this type of mortgage.

Fixed-rate

A fixed-rate mortgage has an interest rate that doesn't change for the entire loan term. Your monthly payments will stay the same with this type of mortgage.

Home equity

Your home equity is your current home value minus what you owe in your mortgage.

Mortgage insurance

If your down payment is less than 20 percent of your home's purchase price, you will need to pay for mortgage insurance. Mortgage insurance protects your lender from losing money if you default on your loan. Typically, Federal Housing Administration (FHA) and US Department of Agriculture (USDA) loans require mortgage insurance.

Home value

Home value is the estimated amount your home is worth in the current market.

Monthly mortgage payment

Your monthly mortgage payment has four components: principal, interest, taxes, and insurance.

Homeowners insurance

Homeowners insurance is a type of property insurance. It protects you from damage to your home or possessions. Homeowners insurance also provides liability insurance if there are accidents in your home or on the property.

Rent increase

A rent increase is when your landlord raises the rent you pay each month.

Housing costs

Housing costs include your mortgage payments, homeowners insurance, property taxes, and HOA fees if you have an HOA.

Rent payment

Your rent payment is the money you pay to your landlord each month.

Loan amount

The loan amount is the amount of money you plan to borrow from a lender.

Security deposit

A security deposit is the amount of money you give to your landlord at the beginning of a lease. This deposit is usually equal to one month's rent and covers any damage the tenant causes to the property.

Upfront costs

Upfront costs are the costs you'll need to pay before moving into your new home, including your down payment, closing costs, and other fees.